
Lab 1 Scenario:

The Learningazurecloud compagny is moving to the cloud. You are on a team that will assist.
Requirements:
They are moving 16 windows server Datacenter VMs for their frontend deployment. You are moving the first one

Task 1:
Create the first VM

Additionnal Info:
1-1 - A new VNET will be required
1-2 - High-availability is a huge concern. You need to make sure these servers spread accross at least 2 server cabinet with independent power and networking.
1-3 - The CIO of Learningazurecloud company is terrified of azure plateform updates. He requests that at least 8 servers are up at all times.
1-4 - The web server need to access the vms via RDP at public IP address. Web traffic must be allowed, port 80.

Task 2:
Learningazurecloud sales are down. The Learningazurecloud company is testing 3 linux servers and they want you to create their first server.

Additionnal INFO:
2-1 Connect to the VNET from Task 1.
2-2 High-availability is an even BIGGER concern. The Zombie apocalypse has started and they are attacking datacenter across the world. You need to ensure 
each VM lives in a separate dataceneter.
2-3 storage cost are a HUGE concern. Use the cheapest options available for all storage.
2-4 The Apps on this vm cannot use the OS drive for storage.
2-5 The Zombie apocalypse has caused the CIO to become paraniod, he want all syslogs messages  archived

Task 3:

The Learningazurecloud company website can't handle it! As their consultant, you need to fix it.

3-1 Create a virtual machine scale set
3-2 They want to make sure their vms are spread out over multiple data centers.
3-3 They want to start with 1 virtual machine but want to scale up to 3 if demand increases.
3-4 Doesn't want the CPU usage to go above 70%.
3-5 Make sure we are not wasting resources.
3-6 Use existing VNET and make sure connections are load balanced.

Solution:

Task 1:

- Create a virtual network 
- create 1 availability set with 2 faults domain (because these servers spread across at least 2 servers cabinet with independent power and networking). 
- add 3 updates domain ( because at least 8 servers are up at all times )
Fault domains define the group of virtual machines that share a common power source and network switch. 
Update domains indicate groups of virtual machines and underlying physical hardware that can be rebooted at the same time for any Maintenace activity 
by Azure like driver update or underlying platform patch update.
Placing servers into an availability set limit the impact of potential physical hardware failures, network outages, or power interruptions.
- Create a Network security group and open 3389, and 80 ports. 

Task 2:

back to portal.azure.com

- search for and select virtual machine, select create
- create an availability zone to make sure each virtual machine lives in a separate data center
- create a new data disk and use this disk for saving application data.
- Enable OS guest diagnostics

Task 3:

back to portal.azure.com

- search for and virtual machine scale set and select create
- create an availability zone to spread out over multiple data centers.
- configure autoscale option, set autoscale minimum and maximum of vm, scale out cpu threshold and number of vms to increase, scale in cpu threshold and 
number of vms to decrease
- create a load balancer and use a cloud init option to deploy a nginx web server to all linux vm using yaml file.
